This project is a report of a recent article in biomedical study that uses one or more of the statistical methods. The paper I selected examines the association between muscle weakness, as measured by handgrip strength, and mortality of elderly people. The paper is based on 9-year observational study from the Health and Retirement Study (HRS) which is the longest running longitudinal study of older Americans in the United States. HRS started in 1992 and randomly selected participants and interviewed biannually since 1992. In 2006, half the sample of HRS participants was randomly selected for an enhanced face-to-face interview that included physical measurement. During the physical measurement hand grip strength and other body measurements were measured using a tool. Baseline collection of variables began in 2006 and was repeated every 4 years going forward. The study uses sample of 8,326 of older adults (≥ 65 yrs) from the Health and Retirement Study (HRS). I opened an account in HRS site and downloaded data. I found HRS database little complicated and I had to preprocess the data before running the final tests. My results are little off from the paper but it gives a similar result. 

This project covers four sections listed below: 
1. Summarize the study. (e.g. What was the study design? How many subjects were enrolled? How were they sampled? What was the primary outcome?
What other covariates did they measure? What did they find?)
2. Critique the methods used. (e.g. What methods did they use in this study? What assumptions did they make (explicitly or implicitly)? Might there have been any violations of these assumptions? What other methods could they have used? What are the advantages and disadvantages of their approach compared to other possible
approaches?)
3. Replicate their results. If they fit several models or investigated several different outcomes, you can choose just one model/outcome.
4. Conduct the analysis using a different approach (i.e. one of the approaches you suggest in part 2). Explain how your results compare to the original results.
